
TIM: Meet me at Miller's Cave after sundown. There will be a fun surprise and free Buffalo wings. From, Moby.

Tim walks into the cave, holding his lantern before him.

TIM: Hello? (short pause) Moby?

There is a group of robots near the cave wall. Tim does not see them at first. Then he turns and his light illuminates them. He jumps in surprise.

TIM: Ahh!

He examines the robot closest to him. When he touches it, it falls over sideways. The robots are plastic replicas of Moby.

 (echo)

Tim hears Moby beep inside the cave. He follows the sound, walking through a crowd of several more Moby replicas. He finds Moby painting a white replica of himself in orange. There is a 3D printer behind Moby, against the cave wall.

TIM: So, you got a 3D printer, huh?

Moby stops painting and faces Tim.



TIM: And you brought me all the way down here just to show off your weird plastic army?



Moby gestures toward a nearby desktop computer screen. Tim goes over to the screen.

TIM: Oh.

Tim reads the screen.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby, I keep hearing about 3D printing, but I don't know what it is. Can you tell me? From, Lucas.

Tim holds the lantern up high as he speaks.

TIM: Sure thing, Lucas. And it looks like Moby will be able to help me.



The two stand side by side, and Moby holds a white replica of Moby’s leg.

TIM: Unless you live in, um... a cave, you've probably used a regular printer.

A printer, next to a desktop computer, prints a flat image of Moby's face on paper.

TIM: They print in two dimensions.

Moby takes the image from the printer's tray, holds it up for the viewer to see and points at it with his other hand.

TIM: 3D printing works on the same principle, just with an extra dimension.

The image of Moby's face on the paper turns slightly and grows deeper. The image disappears and is replaced by a computer screen. A desktop computer screen faces the viewer. A 3D diagram, which looks like an outline of Moby's head, forms on the screen.

TIM: You start with a 3D image on your computer.

The camera zooms back to show a large 3D printer next to the desktop computer. An arrow indicates the route of the image from the screen to the printer.

TIM: The image is sent to a 3D printer, where it's interpreted as a stack of thin slices. The slices are printed, one on top of the other.

In the printer, a pile of slices that is similar to that of a stacked deck of cards assumes the shape of Moby's head. The camera zooms in on the printer and this new image.

TIM: When it's done, you have a precise 3D model of your image.



An image shows a mechanical pen depositing liquid onto a sheet of paper.

TIM: In most 3D printers, each slice is squirted out as a thin layer of liquid. The liquid hardens immediately, and the printing surface lowers.

Another mechanical pen appears next to the first pen in the printer. The pens spin around in the printer, working together to create layers, or the slices, of the printed surface. These layers form the image of Moby's head.

TIM: The process repeats over and over until—WHAMMO!—There's your object, made exactly to your specifications.

The camera pulls back to show a spool of thick, orange cord next to the 3D printer.

TIM: Most of these printers use a spool of plastic as their stock, or raw material. But the stock can be just about anything—from metal, to wax, to chocolate.



TIM: Yeah. It does seem like magic, doesn't it?

A different type of printer appears. It resembles a long, flat table with a long tube of material on the left and three shapes on it from left to right. The shapes are a rectangle, square, and rectangle. The center square is the printing surface, and it can move up and down.

TIM: Another kind of printer starts out with a layer of powdered material. It's most commonly plastic, but it can also be metal or ceramic. A laser traces the shape of the first slice, heating the powder so it sticks together. The printing surface drops, more powder is rolled across it, and the process keeps repeating.

The table fades away to show that there is a box filled with powder inside the table. Moby's hand appears from off-screen, reaches into the box of powder and removes a replica of Moby's head. There is a lot of powder left in the box. He lifts the head to his own face to examine it. His expression is uneasy.

TIM: When it's done, all of the leftover powder can be used for the next job.

The screen becomes blank. Layers, or slices, of print stack upon one another, forming another image of Moby's head.

TIM: In any 3D printer, each layer is paper-thin. So the printing process can take a while.

The screen splits. On the left side of the screen, a mechanical pen creates a round image on a print layer. On the right side, a mechanical pen creates a rectangular image on a print layer.

TIM: It might take fifteen minutes to print out an extra button for your shirt, or a few hours to print a replacement case for your cellphone.

Tim is holding his lantern and standing in the cave. Behind him are several statues of Moby.

TIM: Each of these Moby statues probably took a few days. Which seems kind of like a waste of time.



TIM: Nothing.

The two stand side-by-side facing the viewer. Moby looks unhappy.

TIM: Anyway, there's a lot of excitement about the potential for 3D printing.

An image shows a researcher in a lab coat, holding a mop. Next to him is a poster advertising "MOP-O! The self-cleaning ceiling mop."

TIM: Inventors can now easily build working models of their ideas.

An image shows a doctor standing in front of an X-ray display. He is holding a plastic joint in front of it.

TIM: Doctors can print joint replacements, hearing aids, and other stuff that requires a custom fit.

An image shows an astronaut in her space ship. Tools and equipment are floating weightlessly around her. She is smiling and holding a wrench.

TIM: Astronauts in space can print equipment they need instead of waiting for shipments from Earth. But the biggest change might be in the way everyday goods are made.



TIM: Today, most products are mass-produced in factories.

An image shows an assembly line, where small toy sharks are being made.

TIM: People and robots assemble thousands of copies of the exact same item and then ship them to stores.

An image shows boxed toy sharks on a store shelf. This is replaced by an image of a girl at a desk with a desktop computer and a 3D printer. She uses her printer to create and replace a missing or broken piece of the toy shark.

TIM: In the future, if most people have their own 3D printers, they'll be able to make a lot of these products at home. All they'll need is raw material like plastic or metal, and a computer file for the item they want.



Moby rubs his hands together in excitement.

TIM: Well, we're still quite a way off from that. For now, printers can't make complex objects with lots of moving parts.

An image shows a daydreaming boy. There is a thought balloon above his head. His thought balloon contains a camera and a wristwatch.

TIM: Like, you couldn't print a wristwatch or a camera.

The boy snaps to attention and his thought balloon vanishes. He frowns as several small camera and wristwatch parts float above him.

TIM: I mean, you might be able to print each part individually, but you'd still have to assemble it yourself. As the technology improves, though, it's sure to play a bigger and bigger role in how everyday objects are made.

Tim turns to Moby and gestures toward the Moby replicas standing behind them.

TIM: Speaking of which, what exactly do you intend to do with this army of yours?



Moby holds a remote control. He hits its button, and the cave wall opens to reveal a large map of the world. Ominous music plays, and Moby rubs his hands together in evil glee. Tim is eating a large container of Buffalo wings.

TIM: OK. You realize these guys are just plastic, right?

A boy, Tim, is in the bathroom, examining a pimple on his cheek. A robot, Moby, joins him. Both of their faces are reflected in the mirror.



TIM: Leave me alone. Besides, everybody gets zits.

Moby hands Tim an envelope. Tim reads from a typed letter.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby, Help! Yesterday I noticed a small bump on my chin. Now, I have a huge pimple on my forehead. Do these things go away? From, Dana (Wilmington, Delaware). Don't freak out, Dana. Most of us have to deal with zits at some time. Have you seen my cheek?

Moby shakes his head no.

TIM: Anyway, these nasty bumps are a nuisance, but acne is very common. It's actually considered a normal part of puberty. But I know that doesn't help when you're looking at a big pimple in the mirror. What does help is learning about what causes these little monsters and the things that you can do to take care of your skin.

An image shows a close-up of a patch of skin.

TIM: Everybody has hair all over their skin, even if you can hardly see it. Acne occurs when the hair follicles, or pores, get clogged with oil. Skin has oil glands called sebaceous glands that produce an oil called sebum that lubricates hair and skin. Sometimes a gland will produce too much sebum. If the pore gets clogged with oil and dead skin cells, a zit forms.

An animation shows a cross-section of hair growing from skin, oil being released from the sebaceous gland and traveling through the pore, and a zit forming.

TIM: You may have noticed that there's more than one type of zit. Whiteheads happen when a pore gets clogged but stays closed. Pressure causes the skin to get red and raised, with a white tip that holds in the oil.

An image shows a whitehead forming on skin.

TIM: If a pore gets clogged up but stays open, the surface can darken into a blackhead. Blackheads aren't bumps, but you can see them if you look close.

The whitehead is replaced by many small blackheads.

TIM: A plain old pimple is a red bump caused by bacteria and dead skin cells getting under the skin's surface.

The blackheads are replaced by a pimple.



TIM: Good question, Moby.

TIM: Puberty causes your body to produce lots of new hormones.

An image shows an outline of a female teenager filling up with hormones.

TIM: Certain hormones tell the sebaceous glands to make more oil, and sometimes the glands become overactive. That's why trying to scrub the oil off your face won't work. It happens from the inside out.

An animation shows what happens when the glands are overactive.

TIM: Dana, here are a few tips for dealing with acne. First, most acne clears up after puberty, so you won't be stuck with it forever.

A clock appears and illustrates the passage of time.

TIM: Wash your face twice a day with mild soap and water to keep it clean.

An image shows a water faucet running.

TIM: Use oil-free sunscreen.

An image shows a bottle of oil-free sunscreen.

TIM: Many over-the-counter products from your local drugstore can help, too.

Images show anti-acne medications.

TIM: Try not to pick or pop zits. I know. Everyone says that, and people still do it. It can cause scars that won't disappear. And popping them can cause oil to spread and make more zits.

Tim reaches up and squeezes the zit. A large red X appears over him.



TIM: Right. If acne gets really bad, there are special skin doctors called dermatologists who can help. Acne doesn't have to make you miserable. A silly old pimple is no reason not to have fun.



The pimple on Tim's cheek has turned into a whitehead. Moby hands him a wacky hat, which he puts on his head.

TIM: Thanks, Moby. Nobody will notice that big whitehead now.

Tim is in his bedroom. He is sitting in a chair, listening to music with headphones.

Someone knocks the door.

TIM: Leave me alone.

Moby is at his bedroom door.



TIM: Argh. What is it, Moby?

Moby opens the door and enters the room.



Moby hands Tim an envelope. Tim reads from a typed letter.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby, how come my older brother is always so grumpy? What's going on? Signed, Sam. Well, he's probably just going through adolescence. That's the part of our lives when we transform from kids into adults.

An animation shows a boy turning into a grownup.



TIM: It all begins with puberty, a series of physical changes. Puberty can begin as early as 8 and as late as 14. Your body begins releasing chemicals called hormones, which trigger changes throughout the body.

The outlines of a boy and girl are shown. The numbers 8-13 appear on top of the girl, representing the typical puberty age range for girls. The numbers 9-14 appear on top of the boy for the same reason. An animation shows lines moving throughout their bodies, representing the release of hormones.

TIM: In boys, a hormone called testosterone leads to a deepened voice, bigger muscles and facial hair.

Images show a boy’s mouth, muscular arms, and hair growing on a face.

TIM: Girls produce estrogen, which makes their periods start and leads to the growth of breasts and hips.

Images show a menstrual pad, a girl’s chest, and a girl’s hips.

TIM: Both boys and girls start growing hair on their legs, underarms, and, um, downstairs.

An image shows male and female silhouettes. Arrows point to the areas on their bodies as Tim describes.

TIM: Puberty makes both boys and girls grow bigger and taller.

The silhouettes get larger.

TIM: But that's not all. During adolescence, your brain changes; too.

An animation shows the brain inside Tim’s head.

TIM: You develop more control over your impulses because you use better judgment and reasoning.

An animation shows a large screen flashing the words: Do Not Push with an arrow pointing toward a large red button. There is a loud buzzing sound. Tim successfully fights the urge to push the button.

TIM: But the hormones flooding your body also intensify your emotions! So it's normal for adolescents to have mood swings.

A male and female silhouette appear. An animation shows lines moving through their bodies, representing the flood of hormones.

TIM: You might feel happy one minute and sad the next for no apparent reason.

Side by side images of a young girl illustrate happiness and sadness.

TIM: And then--



Tim becomes angry and shouts at Moby.

TIM: Would you let me finish talking for once?

Moby's feelings are hurt.

TIM: Sorry. I'm just kind of grumpy today. Anyway... ah, teenagers' moods aren't just caused by hormone shifts. For one thing, seeing your body change so quickly can make you really self-conscious.

An animation shows Tim looking at a pimple on his face in the mirror.

TIM: It's not uncommon to develop some acne, better known as pimples.

An image shows a whitehead on Tim's face. He touches it with a finger.

TIM: That's your hormones telling your skin to produce too much oil, and in most cases, washing your face more will take care of it.

An animation illustrates the skin producing oil. The oil builds up and appears as a pimple on the surface of the skin.

TIM: On the other end of the spectrum, you might be self-conscious about how little you're changing compared to other kids.

An image of a school hallway shows two small adolescents looking at two taller, more developed students.



TIM: Right, it's not all about physical changes. It can be frustrating when you feel like an adult but still get treated like a kid. Teens place more value on their independence and freedom than younger kids.

An image shows a teenager's bedroom door. A sign on the door reads, Warning: Keep Out.

TIM: They may feel restricted by their parents, and want to spend more time with their friends. And that often leads to peer pressure.

An animation shows a younger teen hanging out with slightly older teens wearing goth-style clothes. Then he himself is shown with a goth haircut and clothing.

TIM: Sometimes, that's a good thing. Your friends might encourage you to keep up with your schoolwork, or join a club or team.

Images show a girl comforting another girl, a study group, and two field hockey players practicing together what Tim describes.

TIM: But it can also involve pressure to try unhealthy behaviors like smoking, drinking, and other stuff. Even if no one actively pressures you, you might be influenced by your peers' behavior.

An animation shows four teens in a night club. Three are drinking and laughing at the fourth one who is not drinking.

TIM: Most adolescents want to fit in and not seem weird or uncool.

The fourth teen joins the other three in drinking.



TIM: Yep, the pressures of adolescence can overwhelm some kids. They can get really stressed out or depressed, and even consider hurting themselves.

An image shows a depressed teen sitting in front of his school locker.

TIM: If you're feeling like that, you need to talk to an adult you trust. And if a friend seems to feel that way, tell an adult immediately.

An animation shows a boy telling a teacher about the depressed teen in the hallway.



TIM: Sorry for getting so serious, but it's a real problem.



TIM: Yeah, adolescence can be a really awkward and difficult time. But it's also a time of self-discovery, when you start to figure out who you are and who you want to become. To help make those kinds of choices, you might look up to role models like athletes, musicians, and famous actors.

An image shows Tim looking at a poster of a famous astrophysicist, Neil deGrasse Tyson.

TIM: It's also common to experiment and try new things.

Moby is now wearing a T-shirt identical to Tim's, along with a wig that looks like Tim’s hair. Tim gives Moby an uneasy look.



TIM: Well; you become curious about ideas, different kinds of people, and new experiences.

Images show examples of the kinds of academic subjects teens might become interested in; the faces of three people with very different personal styles; and examples of new experiences like acting and surfing.

TIM: You might also become more interested in having a boyfriend or girlfriend.

An image shows Moby offering a flower to a female robot.

TIM: It can feel like a long ordeal, but as you reach the end of adolescence, you're more independent, smarter, and more confident.

Moby is listening to music with Tim's headphones, bobbing his head back and forth.

TIM: In other words, more like an adult.

He turns to Moby.

TIM: Do you like this band?



TIM: Maybe I'll join a band.

Moby laughs.



TIM: What? It would be cool to be in a band!

Moby laughs again.



Tim pushes Moby out of the door.

TIM: Hmmm.

Tim and Moby stand on a corner. A bus drives by them. An ad for alcohol on the side of the bus reads, Girls Will Like You. The bus stops, then moves on.

TIM: Well, that's just dumb.

Tim reads from a typed letter.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby, does alcohol count as a drug? From, Winchell. Well, a drug is any substance that alters how your body functions. Alcohol slows down the central nervous system, creating a sedative, sleeplike effect. So alcohol is definitely a drug. It's a depressant. Depressants are drugs that slow your breathing, heart rate, and blood pressure to the point that you may stop breathing altogether.

An image shows a silhouette of someone under the influence of alcohol.



TIM: Well, people don't always think of it as a drug, because it's legal for adults, and so common. But next to caffeine, a stimulant by the way, alcohol is probably the most popular drug in the world.

Side by side images show a steaming cup of coffee and several bottles of alcohol.



TIM: Well, since alcohol slows the central nervous system, it has a big effect on how a person acts and feels. It makes people less inhibited. They say or do things that they normally never would.

An image shows a man and woman at a party. The man has a drink in his hand and a lampshade on his head. The woman is frowning.

TIM: All of the senses, taste, hearing, sight, smell, even touch, become impaired. And it messes up your thinking, so you don't use good judgment.

An animation shows a living room going in and out of focus. Then the scene fades to black.

TIM: Your coordination and balance are thrown off, too. That's why it's so dangerous to drink and drive.

Images show bottles of alcohol and an automobile. A red X is drawn over the images.

TIM: The more alcohol you take in, the more extreme its effects. Alcohol is actually a poison!

An image shows several bottles with the skull and crossbones on their labels.

TIM: Drinking too much can cause nausea, vomiting, muscle aches, and even death.

Images illustrate what Tim describes.



TIM: Yeah, I don't know why anyone would want that. The thing is, alcohol is physically addictive, too. That means that people who use it too much build up a tolerance. They need more and more alcohol to get the same effects from it.

An animation shows one bottle of whiskey. Two more bottles get added as Tim speaks, to illustrate how tolerance can build up.

TIM: Addiction to alcohol is a disease called alcoholism. It causes all kinds of health problems, including cancer, high blood pressure, brain damage, and cirrhosis of the liver. That's a condition where the liver cells harden and stop working.

An image shows a silhouette of a body. Various images appear around the silhouette illustrating the health problems Tim describes.



TIM: Most doctors recommend that adults shouldn't have more than one drink a day. But kids, with developing brains and bodies, shouldn't drink it at all. It's illegal, for one thing, and dangerous.

Tim and Moby walk through a park. Tim trips on a beer bottle and regains his balance.



Moby picks up the bottle.

TIM: Right. And you shouldn't litter either.

Tim dressed like a character from Star Trek, is holding hands with Tramalica. They are on a planet that has a purple sky and orange ground.

TIM: Oh, Tramalica, even though we're from different worlds, I feel like I've known you all my life. Is it possible for love to transcend time and space?

Tim goes to kiss her. When he opens his eyes he sees Moby.

TIM: Aaaah!

Tim is lying on a couch. Moby has a letter.

TIM: What? I, I wasn't dreaming.

Moby gives Tim a letter.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby, are there really aliens? From, Trisha. Well, that's a tough question. The quickest way to answer is: We have no idea.

An image shows an alien face. A question mark flashes over it.

TIM: The only planets we've really explored are the ones in our own solar system and so far scientists haven't found any aliens.

An animation shows planets in Earth's solar system.

TIM: Of course, the word alien can mean a lot of things. Movies and books often portray space aliens as intelligent beings, not so different from humans. But an alien, or extraterrestrial, is really any living thing that's not from Earth.

Images show different types of fictional aliens including some well-known aliens from popular movies and TV shows.

TIM: In fact, most scientists think that if there is extraterrestrial life within our solar system, it's most likely very simple; maybe even like the bacteria here on Earth.

An image shows bacteria.

TIM: Some experts think certain planetary bodies, like Jupiter's moon Europa or Saturn's moons Titan and Enceladus, might be able to support microbial life. But no one knows for sure.

An image shows Jupiter and Saturn. Arrows point to the three moons.



TIM: Yeah, I know, I know, you don't care about bacteria. You want to know about serious aliens.

An image shows a green alien with a long pointed head and six arms.

TIM: Well, any intelligent life in our universe would most likely live on a planet orbiting a star, or a moon orbiting a planet.

A split animation shows a planet orbiting a star and a moon orbiting a planet.

TIM: Remember, though, that our galaxy, the Milky Way, contains about 100 billion stars.

An animation shows the Milky Way galaxy.

TIM: And other galaxies outside the Milky Way are millions of light-years away.

An image shows other galaxies beyond the Milky Way.



TIM: Oh, a light-year is the distance that light travels in one year. Light is the fastest thing in the universe. It goes about 300,000,000 meters per second which works out to about 1.1 billion kilometers per hour.

An image shows Moby turning on a flashlight. Light waves appear to be coming from the flashlight and a label states that the speed of light is about 300,000,000 meters per second or about 1.1 billion kilometers per hour.

TIM: So the light from our sun can take millions of years to reach some galaxies.

The image of the galaxies beyond the Milky Way is shown again.

TIM: Imagine how long it would take a spaceship, or even a radio message, to travel that distance.

An animation shows a spaceship moving through space.



TIM: Well, the bad news is that exploring billions of stars might take a long time.

An image shows an old man and woman in a spaceship. A spider hangs in front of the woman at the controls.

TIM: The good news, though, is that with so many stars in the universe, the chances that life does exist somewhere out there seem pretty good.

An image shows stars in the sky.

TIM: So much so, in fact, that during the early 1960s, a group of astronomers began a program called SETI, which stands for the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence.

An image shows a large, radio telescope. Under it reads, SETI Institute. A web address reads, http://www.seti.org/

TIM: They started scanning the sky with a gigantic radio telescope, basically a powerful radio receiver, looking for signals that may have been sent out by civilizations on other planets.

An animation shows a large radio telescope with signal waves moving below the image.

TIM: Today, SETI researchers and volunteers are still listening, trying to find a radio transmission that might have been sent out by intelligent beings. Unfortunately, they haven't found anything yet.

An animation shows a computer monitor with the SETI@home webpage open. The page displays a stream of changing charts and statistics.

TIM: Scientists are also trying to narrow down the search by first finding planets outside our solar system. So far, they've found more than 500 of these extrasolar planets. But with their being so far away, it's hard to get a lot of information about them.

An image shows planets in the earth's solar system and expands to show planets outside of it.



TIM: What would aliens be like? I mean, it's hard to say. There's a good chance that aliens will be built out of the same stuff we are: carbon and water. Or, some scientists believe they might be based on the element silicon

An image shows carbon, water, and silicon molecules.



Moby points at a picture of a flying saucer on the wall.

TIM: Right, UFOs. Some people talk about things like crop circles and strange lights in the sky as evidence that aliens are observing our planet from space.

Side by side images show a crop circle and a woman looking up and seeing different colored lights in a night sky.

TIM: Or, they accuse the government of covering up evidence that UFOs, or unidentified flying objects, are really alien spaceships.

An image shows a government agent preventing a woman from taking a photo of a flying saucer.

TIM: Some even claim that they’ve been abducted by aliens who ran strange experiments on them. But the truth is, there never has been any hard evidence of aliens visiting Earth.

An animation shows a flying saucer at night. It shines a light down on the ground and sucks a person up into the ship.

TIM: No one has ever produced a piece of metal from an alien spacecraft, or a piece of alien clothing, or alien technology, or anything like that.

Images show a piece of metal with alien writing on it, an alien shirt with six arms, and a strange machine with flashing lights.

TIM: And without this kind of evidence, pretty much every UFO sighting or alien abduction can be explained much more simply by factors that have nothing to do with aliens.



TIM: Look, for the last time, I'm not saying it's impossible. I'm just saying that it's highly unlikely that aliens have visited Earth.



TIM: I'm through arguing with you. First you wake me up, and now you won't shut up about aliens!

Moby runs off. He comes back dressed as the green alien woman Tim dreamed about.



TIM: Whoa. Déjà vu.

Tim and Moby are seated at their dining table in the morning. Moby has a sandwich on his plate, and Tim also has one on another plate, but his glass doesn't have any milk.

TIM: Can you reach the milk?

Moby's hand suddenly comes off and hops away. The camera cuts to a shot of the hand grabbing a carton of milk. The hand puts the milk beside Tim, and fixes itself back on Moby.

TIM: Uh... thanks.

Tim reads a letter.

TIM: Dear Tim & Moby, do bacterias have males or females? From, Gerri.



TIM: It's not a riddle, Moby. Bacteria don't have males and females. They reproduce asexually, meaning without sex.

Moby holds his hands over his mouth and giggles.



TIM: Okay, have your laugh. Asexual reproduction is pretty common among plants and simple animals. In some plants, like the strawberry, a stem extends away from the parent plant with child plants growing all along it.

An image illustrates the reproductive method of a strawberry plant as Tim describes it.

TIM: Aspen and poplar trees do the same thing with their roots, shooting them out in all directions to grow new trees. A single grove of trees like these might all come from one parent.

An image shows the interconnected root system of several aspen trees.

TIM: Farmers have asexually reproduced plants for thousands of years by taking cuttings from one and replanting them.

An image shows a farmer in ancient times removing a branch from a plant with a knife.

TIM: However asexual reproduction is done, the children plants are always genetically identical to the parent plant. So they're actually clones.

An image shows the strawberry plant again with its children plants. Over the parent and children plants are circles showing they all have identical DNA.

TIM: Clones share the same genetic information, so the parent is basically a twin of the offspring.



TIM: In sexual reproduction, a female egg cell is fertilized by a male sperm cell. Each cell contains a half-set of the parent's chromosomes, the structures that contain our genes. When the two cells combine, the genes do too, making a unique new individual.

An animation shows sperm cells penetrating an egg. The genes from the sperm and the egg combine.

TIM: But in asexual reproduction, the parent's genes simply replicate, then split in two.

An animation illustrates how the genes in a single-celled organism split in half.

TIM: The process is similar to cell division in eukaryotes. Those are organisms with nuclei in their cells, like plants and animals.

An animation the process of cell division for a eukaryote. The DNA in the nucleus replicates and separates in to two nuclei. Then the cell splits in half, creating two cells. Each cell has its own nucleus with a complete set of DNA. Cell division goes on all the time in your body; it's how you grow!

TIM: In prokaryotes, single-celled organisms with no nuclei, cell division is reproduction. The entire organism divides through a process called binary fission. Bacteria are prokaryotes that reproduce this way.

An animation shows a one-celled organism with no nucleus. It divides into two through binary fission.

TIM: Some organisms can reproduce asexually by a neat little process called budding. In budding, a child develops as a growth on the parent’s body.

An animation illustrates shows a hydra developing a growth that resembles the parent hydra.



TIM: In some organisms, like the hydra here, the bud falls off and becomes an independent creature.

The small hydra bud falls off and drifts away from the parent.

TIM: In others, like corals, the buds stay put, just one more clone rooted to the entire colony.

An animation shows a slowly growing undersea coral. An inset shows how the individual buds stick together to form a larger colony.

TIM: And you've probably heard about how a starfish that gets its arm cut off will grow back a new one. That's a process called regeneration, which in certain cases is a form of asexual reproduction.

An animation shows a starfish growing a new arm.

TIM: Like, if an injury is severe enough; the animal can regenerate into two or more separate children.

An animation shows a sponge regenerating into two separate sponges.

Tim is doing dishes in the kitchen sink. Moby tears a kitchen sponge into two pieces.



TIM: Yeah, I don't think that sponge will regenerate.



TIM: Well, it's made of plastic.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby, Where do babies really come from? I'm confused. Drew (Atlanta). Hmm.

Moby throws an egg at Tim and hits him in the face.



TIM: Thanks a lot, Moby. All right, I guess we'll start with eggs. All humans begin life as a single fertilized egg. Women have egg cells in their ovaries.

An image shows an egg cell in an ovary.

TIM: Ovaries are a part of the female reproductive system.

An image shows the location of a woman's reproductive system, below her stomach.

TIM: These eggs are released about once a month, usually a couple of weeks before a woman has her period.

An animation shows an egg released from a woman's ovary.

TIM: Sperm cells are released from the penis during sexual intercourse.

An animation shows released sperm cells.

TIM: The penis and testicles are the male reproductive organs.

An image shows the location of a man's reproductive organs, below his stomach.

TIM: A woman gets pregnant when one of her egg cells is fertilized by a male sperm cell. That means that the egg cell and sperm cell have joined together to make a whole new cell.

An animation shows the process Tim describes.

TIM:What happens next is kind of strange. The fertilized egg divides into two cells, then four cells, then eight cells, and so on. It becomes a little cluster.

An animation shows a fertilized egg cell dividing into multiple cells.

TIM: This cluster travels through the woman's reproductive system. It passes through the fallopian tubes in a chamber called the uterus.

An animation shows the cell cluster traveling through a woman's reproductive organs.

TIM: This cluster of cells plants itself in the lining of the uterus. The outer layer of cells forms a covering called the placenta, and the inner layer becomes the embryo.

An animation shows how the placenta and embryo are formed.

TIM: This is where the waiting starts.

An animation shows a stop watch.

TIM: After eight weeks, the embryo begins to grow organs. Now it's called a fetus.

An image shows a fetus.

TIM: Somewhere around three months of pregnancy, the fetus will be big enough that a mother's tummy starts to stick out.

An image shows a pregnant woman's stomach. The shirt she's wearing says, "bun in the oven."

TIM: But it takes about nine months of growth for that fetus to be ready to leave the mother's body. During these nine months, the fetus floats around in a protective housing called the amniotic sac and lives off of nutrients from the mother's body. The umbilical cord connects the fetus to the placenta that we talked about earlier. Nutrients travel from the mother to the fetus through this cord.

An image shows a fetus floating in a fluid. A cord is attached to the fetus.

TIM: When the baby is finally born, the umbilical cord will be cut, so the baby can live on its own.

An animation shows the cord being cut.

TIM: Your belly button is what's left of your umbilical cord.

An image shows a belly button.



TIM: What are you talking about? Robots can't give birth. Oh, ahem. Cassie and Rita have been getting lots of questions about pregnancy. They asked me to mention that you can't generally get pregnant without having sexual intercourse. There's no chance of becoming pregnant from a swimming pool or by kissing or whatever. Phew. Huh?

Moby cradles a wrapped bundle.



TIM: Is that a baby?



TIM: Uhhh.

A toaster is inside of the wrapped bundle.

TIM: Beep.

Toast pops out of the toaster.

TIM: Oh. Cute.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby, What was the Black Death? Sincerely Yours, Florinda.

TIM: The Black Death, or the Black Plague, was a pandemic that killed millions of people during the Middle Ages. A pandemic is when an infectious disease spreads over a large part of the world.An image shows a medieval town filled with dead and dying people.

TIM: The Black Death first showed up in China in 1333, where it killed five million people in the Hubei province alone.

A map shows China and the Hubei province. A skull and crossbones is over the name of the province.



TIM: I know, but that was just the beginning. Traders and soldiers carried the disease along the Silk Road, a trading route that stretched from China all the way to the Middle East. In October, 1347, a fleet of plague-infested merchant ships landed in Messina, Italy.

Maps show the Silk Road and ships traveling from the Middle East to Messina.

TIM: After that, the Black Death spread rapidly throughout Europe.

An animation shows a map of Europe turning black, representing the spread of the disease.

TIM: In just four years, the disease killed somewhere between one-third and two-thirds of everyone living in Europe.

An illustration represents deaths in Europe from the Black Death between the years 1347 and 1351.



TIM: Yeah. It's pretty incredible.

TIM: But that wasn't the end of it. Smaller outbreaks of the Black Plague recurred for centuries.

A skull and crossbones image is used to show the outbreaks across Europe in the fifteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries.

TIM: There are a few reasons that so many people died. First of all, war, famine, and terrible weather were already making life pretty rough for people before illness struck. And hunger makes people much more susceptible to disease.

An image shows sick, weak people.

TIM: Second, medical practices at the time weren't exactly based on science. Nobody, not even doctors, had enough knowledge to figure out what caused the plague and how they could keep from spreading it.

An image shows a medieval doctor holding a saw and studying a medical book.

TIM: And the medical remedies available to sick people often did more harm than good.

There is a bedridden patient next to the doctor. The patient is anxious and sweating, with spots on his face.

TIM: One practice, called bloodletting, involved making a person bleed a lot so that a sickness would be bled out of them.

An image shows a doctor making a cut in a woman’s arm. Blood is flowing from her arm into a bowl.



TIM: No, it doesn't work at all, and it's really dangerous! Folk remedies, like charms and herbs, were mostly harmless, but really didn't do any good, either.

Images show various folk remedies.

TIM: Most importantly, people were completely unaware of simple hygiene, like bathing, washing your hands, or properly disposing of garbage and human waste.

Side by side images show a person washing his hands and a woman dumping human waste from a second-story window onto the ground.



TIM: Well, today most historians believe that the Black Death was really an outbreak of the disease called the bubonic plague. It's caused by the bacteria Yersinia pestis.

An image shows bacteria seen through a microscope.

TIM: Bubonic plague is mostly found in rodents, but it can spread to people when a flea carrying the bacteria jumps from a rat onto a human.

An animation shows a sick-looking rat with a flea on its ear. Then the flea jumps from the rat onto a human leg and the infection spreads.

TIM: Bubonic plague was marked by puffy bumps called buboes, which ooze pus and blood on people's necks, armpits, and groins. The skin also developed black patches and boils.

Arrows indicate the places on the body the plague affects. Images show buboes, black patches, and boils.

TIM: People infected with the disease often died within a week after they started showing symptoms.



TIM: Yeah, it was a scary time. Just so you know, today there is effective treatment for bubonic plague. So even if you get it, which is unlikely, you don't have to worry too much about dying from it.

An image shows a young man getting a shot in a doctor's office.

TIM: Interestingly, a number of scientists now think the Black Death may not have been caused by bubonic plague at all. They think it may have been caused by something else, like the anthrax bacteria, a viral disease like Ebola, smallpox, or even a combination of several diseases including the bubonic plague.

Images show these various types of bacteria as seen through a microscope.

TIM: Whatever the cause, the Black Death changed history. The pandemic scared people so much, the whole social order broke down. Graves filled up so fast that bodies were left unburied for days.

An image shows a medieval town ravaged by the Black Death.

TIM: In a panic, people would blame minorities and foreigners for spreading the plague, with bloody results.

An image shows a medieval lynch mob

TIM: People rejected the absolute authority of the Church, and even class hierarchies began to break down.

An image shows a religious figure, a wealthy woman, and a peasant. They start out standing on different levels, then they are seen on one level.

TIM: So many people died that there was hardly anyone left to work the fields. Because of this, peasants were eventually able to demand more rights and more money.

An image shows a peasant in a field, harvesting grain with a scythe.

TIM: After the first outbreak, the disease came back periodically for the next four hundred years in Iceland; London, England; Milan, Italy; Vienna, Austria; and Moscow, Russia.

A map shows Europe and the North Atlantic region. Symbols mark the locations and year of the Black Death outbreaks as Tim names them.

TIM: Thousands died as untrained professionals called "plague doctors" went from house to house offering ineffective remedies to the sick.

An animation shows a person wearing a mask and a long, dark coat. He is walking through the streets of a plague-stricken town.

Tim sneezes.

<Ah-choo!>



TIM: I don't have the Black Death, Moby.

<Ah-choo!>

TIM: I think it's just allergies.

TIM: Excuse me.

A moment later Tim returns and sits back down on the sofa.

TIM: Ahhh.

Moby hands Tim an envelope.



Tim reads from a typed letter.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby, why does the nose make boogers? From, Eugenia. Hey!



TIM: I just went to wash my hands. Anyway, boogers are a natural byproduct of your immune system.

An animation shows a bacteria in a gun's crosshairs. Rays hit and destroy the bacteria.

<Zap!>

TIM: That's the set of organs and tissues that protect you against illness and disease. When your nose makes boogers, it's a sign that your immune system is working the way it should.



TIM: Well, the air we breathe contains all kinds of stuff we wouldn't want inside our bodies.

An animation shows air going in and out of a person's nostrils.

TIM: Dust and other debris can clog up your lungs. Pollen and animal dander can trigger allergic reactions. And viruses and bacteria can get you sick.

An animation shows the debris and bacteria Tim describes.

TIM: To protect against these alien invaders, your nose is lined with mucus membranes, a specialized tissue that secretes mucus.

An animation shows a single microscopic particle going into a nostril.



TIM: Mucus is a clear, sticky slime used for all kinds of stuff throughout your body. In the nose, mucus is, well, you might know it as snot.



TIM: It traps all those unwanted particles before they reach your lungs. Plus, it contains enzymes and antibodies, substances that destroy germs.

An animation shows particles and bacteria being caught in the mucus inside a nostril.

<Squish, squish.>

An antibody eats a bacterium.

<Munch.>



TIM: Well, mucus starts off clear, but the dirt and other stuff in the air discolors it. So don't be grossed out by the colors. That's how you know it's doing its job.

An animation shows particles in the air attaching to green mucus.

TIM: The mucus in your nose is one of your body's frontline defenses against sickness and infections. That's why it produces so much, about a quarter of a liter per day.

An image shows one-fourth of a liter of liquid in a glass beaker.

TIM: It makes even more when you have a cold, to flush out the germs infecting you.

An animation shows a person with a dripping nose.



TIM: Well, your nasal passages actually lead to the back of your throat. Most of your mucus ends up back there, and you swallow it.

An animation shows mucus starting in the nose and traveling down the throat.

TIM: But the mucus that stays in your nose dries up and becomes the almighty booger!

An animation shows a small booger becoming a large one. Tim's voice echoes.

TIM: Whoa. Special hairs in your nose called cilia push boogers to one of two places, to the back of your throat so you can swallow it, or to the front of your nose, where…

An animation with arrows shows nose hairs moving boogers in various directions.



TIM: No, you're not supposed to pick it. Just blowing your nose is fine. First of all, boogers are filled with germs and dirt, and you don't want that stuff on your fingers.

An image shows a booger labeled with a biohazard sign.

TIM: Plus, picking your nose can make it bleed.



TIM: What do you mean, "so?" Bloody noses are bad.



TIM: Because, well, because they just are. I mean, do you want a bloody nose?

Moby nods yes.



He picks up a hammer and holds it in one hand. He points at his nose with the other.



TIM: Forget it!



TIM: I don't care if you won't feel it. I'm not bashing your nose with a hammer. Weirdo!

TIM: I can't believe we're lost.

Moby offers a marshmallow to Tim.



TIM: No, I was supposed to bring the marshmallows; you were supposed to bring the map.

Moby shrugs.



TIM: Uh, let's do a letter.

Tim reads from a typed letter.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby, Can you explain when to use colons? From, Mr. Henry's Class.

An image shows a colon.

TIM: A colon is a punctuation mark that looks like two dots stacked on top of each other. It has a bunch of different uses, but most of them follow the same pattern: whatever comes after the colon describes, expands on, or reveals something new about what came before. Come to think of it, that sentence is a pretty good example.

An image shows the sentence, highlighting the colon after the word "pattern."

TIM: The clause after the colon describes the "pattern" that was mentioned right before the colon.

The clause “whatever comes after the colon describes, expands on, or reveals something new about what came before” is highlighted.

TIM: Like commas, colons correspond to pauses in spoken sentences, only they tend to be a little longer. That's because in a sentence, a colon is always preceded by an independent clause, a clause that can stand on its own as a sentence. Let's take that last example.

The clause from the example is shown.

TIM: See? The clause, "most of them follow the same pattern" can stand on its own as a sentence; it's independent.

Tim's stomach growls.

TIM: Ooh, sorry. I haven't eaten since we left this morning. I bet Mom and Dad are making dinner right now, as we speak.



TIM: Well, probably their specialties: black bean chicken, steamed artichokes, sun-dried tomato garlic bread, and pasta salad. I can almost taste it.

An image shows Tim's parents, then the foods as Tim lists them.



TIM: Oh, right. Sorry.

An image shows the clause, "My parents are making their specialties:"

TIM: Anyway, you see how the colon lets you know that there's a list starting up?

An image shows the food Tim mentions under the sentence “My parents are making their specialties, colon, black bean chicken, steamed artichokes, sun-dried tomato garlic break, and pasta bread.

TIM: It's almost like an equals sign in math.

An equals sign replaces the colon in the clause.

TIM: And notice how the introductory clause, "My parents are making their specialties," can stand alone as a sentence?

The clause is shown as a sentence that ends in a period.

TIM: A colon can also be used to reveal information about something mentioned before it. Hey, did I tell you that I finally picked a name for the new cat? I've decided on a name for my new kitty: Minou.

An image shows Tim's sentence next to a cat.

TIM: If I stopped at the colon, you'd be left hanging, wondering what the name is. The part after the colon satisfies your curiosity.

"Minou" is highlighted. Moby laughs.



TIM: Minou is a perfectly good name, so what if it's French? Back to the main point: colons have a bunch of other uses, too. We use colons all the time to, well, to tell time, for one thing. They separate the numbers that represent hours and minutes.

A radio alarm clock shows 7:15, then the alarm beeps.

TIM: We also use colons after the salutations in business letters.

An image shows a salutation, "Dear Mr. Moby" with a colon after “Moby”.



TIM: No, I'm not going to call you "Mr. Moby" from now on. Stop asking. Colons also separate the titles and subtitles of books, movies, and essays.

Tim holds a book up.

TIM: Gee, I'm sure glad I have my copy of The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring with me. We also use colons to separate the chapter and verse numbers when we're talking about religious texts like the Torah, the Bible, and the Koran.

An image shows these three religious texts. There are samples of how colons separate the chapter and verse, such as Genesis 1, colon, 1.

TIM: And we use colons to introduce quotations. Tim said to Moby: "What do you think that big shadow is?"

Tim's sentence appears next to him. Moby covers his mouth and looks anxious.



TIM: Relax, I just made that up. There's not actually a shadow.

Tim gets scared.

TIM: Yagghhh!

The shadow is Tim's father with a flashlight, looking for Tim and Moby.

TIM: Oh. Hey, Dad.

Moby looks sadly into a handheld mirror and spray paint his head green. Tim watches him.

TIM: Hey, what are you doing?



TIM: Well, who told you that?

Moby holds up his phone. Tim reads from the typed message.

TIM: Dear Moby, you are the ugliest shade of orange I've ever seen. Get a clue, weirdo. From, A friend. 1st of all, Moby's color is just fine. It's pretty and it's web-safe.

Moby smiles.

TIM: And 2nd, you're no friend at all. You're just a Cyberbully!



TIM: No, I didn't just make that up. Cyber bullying is what it sounds like: bullying on the internet or through emails and texts.

Images show a social media comment thread, an email inbox and the message on Moby's phone.

TIM: It can include sending mean messages; posting embarrassing photos or secrets about somebody; leaving someone out of online groups; spreading rumors; posing as someone else to make them look bad.

Images illustrate what Tim describes: mean comments, a photo of someone singing into a hairbrush and a thread of messages about excluding someone from an online group.



TIM: Yeah, unfortunately there are dozens of ways to do it. The bottom line is, if it's intended to make someone feel bad or unsafe, it's cyber bullying; and even though it's not a physical attack, it can still cause a lot of damage.

Side-by-side images show a girl reading a mean comment thread on a computer and a boy reading a message on his phone. Both are sad and hurt by what they are seeing.

TIM: Victims are more likely to suffer from illnesses, depression and lowered self-esteem.



TIM: Well, some bullies do it to feel better about themselves.

An animation shows a robot texting the bullying message to Moby.

TIM: But believe it or not, a lot of them don't even realize that they're being mean or hurtful! It's easy to forget that there's a real live person with feelings behind that social media handle or cell phone number.

An image shows a boy at his computer, looking upset by what he sees on the screen.

TIM: Plus, bullies may feel that they're safely hidden behind their own username.



Moby shows Tim the response he has just sent to the bully. Text on the phone screen reads, Same to you and many more, buck o!

TIM: No, fighting back is one thing you should never do with a cyberbully. They just want to get a reaction out of you, so why play into their hands?

An animation shows the cyberbully laughing while reading Moby's response.

TIM: Sometimes, it can help to tell someone when they're making you feel bad.



TIM: Well, they may think they're just playing a harmless joke. But if talking doesn't work, you should use any block or ignore functions that are available.

An animation shows how a user can block a contact by adjusting their settings.

TIM: You can also just delete messages from bullies without reading them.



TIM: Well, if the bullying doesn't stop, or if it's threatening your safety, there are other ways to deal with it. Save any messages, emails, or screenshots that show what's happening.

An animation shows an example of what Tim describes. Moby saves a mean comment by opening a drop down menu and clicking "save".

TIM: You can usually send complaints to websites and messenger hosts, and those files will be useful as evidence.

The animation shows Moby using the same drop down menu to report the user by clicking report and flagging the comment as abusive.

TIM: You can print out hard copies, too.

An animation shows Moby holding a printed copy of the mean message.

TIM: That way, when you tell an adult what's going on, which you should always do, you'll have something to show them. Grownups can help you deal with a tough situation, even if you think you can handle it by yourself.

An image shows a boy consulting an adult.

TIM: Even when the bullying takes place at home, there's a good chance that your school has rules against it. In fact, many forms of cyber bullying are considered harassment, and can result in criminal charges.



TIM: Yeah, there's a lot you can do to prevent it, too. Sticking up for other kids is sometimes enough to scare a bully off.

An animation shows the comment section below an online video of a boy playing guitar in his room. One user, an n i e c, writes that he can't sing for his life. Other users write in comments defending the boy and criticizing the mean comment.

TIM: But the best way to stop it is to not be a cyberbully yourself! Don't write or text anything you wouldn't say in person; what may be a harmless joke to you can be taken as an insult by someone else. If you're angry or upset, wait a few minutes to calm down before you write something you can't take back!

An animation shows an angry-looking kid taking a few deep breaths before calmly closing his laptop and walking away.

TIM: And remember: Whatever you say online can stay there forever. And even though you may feel anonymous, websites and cellular services can usually figure out your true identity.



TIM: To protect yourself from becoming a victim, be smart online. Don't share your personal information with anyone you don't know.

An image shows Moby's profile on a website called Rob o Space. The page features lots of Moby's personal information including his name, gender, marital status, and phone number.

TIM: Cyberbullies sometimes impersonate people to embarrass them. So don't ever tell anyone your passwords, except for your parents.

An animation shows the robot cyberbully logging into Rob o Space as Moby and changing his name from Moby to Vacuum Cleaner. The robot cyberbully laughs at his trick.

TIM: Now, what say we wash off that green paint?

Moby looks at himself in the mirror and smiles.



[Moby Laughs]

TIM: You kind of like it? All right, that's...


Moby Was At Walmart getting 900,000 Tnt’s from the house

TIM: What The-

It Explodes leaving Tim and Moby in the funeral and everyone Cherring and laughing.

Tim is on his laptop. An image appears on his screen of Moby dressed as a pirate. Text reads: The dread pirate Moby has assumed control. The image of Moby laughs.

Tim looks over at Moby, who is connected to Tim's laptop by a plug. Tim becomes mad.

TIM: Stop that.

Tim pulls the plug out of Moby's ear. An e-mail alert sounds on Tim's laptop. Tim reads from a typed e-mail.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby: Our parents are always warning us about computer hackers, but we heard they're not all bad. Can you clear things up for us? From, Noam and Shai. Hey, guys.

Tim shuts his laptop.

TIM: I totally understand your confusion. People often use the word "hackers" to refer to criminals.

An image shows a person in black approaching a desktop computer in a dark room.

TIM: They break through security systems that protect computer networks.

The person in black breaks into the desktop computer's security system. He smiles an evil smile.

TIM: But among computer programmers, "hacker" has other meanings. To some, it's a badge of honor that signals you're an expert coder.

An image shows a young girl standing on a stage holding a trophy. A banner above her reads: Hack_athon.

TIM: That's actually the original definition of the term.



TIM: Back in the 1950s, computers weren't something the average person ever used. They were for government agencies, businesses, stuff like that.

An animation shows a room filled with large, 1950s-style computers. A lab technician watches a printer print data on a roll of paper.

TIM: People used these giant machines mainly to save themselves the trouble of doing a lot of complicated math. A computer might help a biologist calculate the volume of a cell or a car company predict sales in the coming year.



TIM: Well, I wouldn't say boring stuff, just very technical and specific. Young programmers knew that computers could be much more than expensive calculators.



An animation shows a young computer programmer standing in a roomful of large 1950s-style computers. A thought balloon shows that the programmer is having an idea.

TIM: Many of these dreamers attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, one of the most prestigious engineering schools in the world.

An image shows the main building of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, or MIT, campus.

TIM: In 1959, the school offered its very first class in computer programming.

An animation shows three young programmers opening a computer lab's door and looking shocked.

TIM: But most students weren't supposed to use, or even touch, the school's computers.

The programmers look inside the computer lab. A security guard is asleep at the computer's control panel.

TIM: After all, they were multimillion-dollar machines.

The security guard wakes up and walks to the programmers. He holds out a sign that reads "Private. Authorized Entry Only."

TIM: Instead, they had to submit programs to authorized users, then wait days or weeks to get results.

An animation shows a programmer placing his program in the slot of a submission box attached to a wall. The programmer stands and waits at the box and, over time, ages and decomposes into a skeleton covered with cobwebs.



TIM: Right. They wanted to get their hands on the actual machinery. So they had to be a bit sneaky. Working while others slept, they'd invent new programs just to see what the computers could do.

An animation shows a programmer rolling the sleeping security guard out of the way. A second programmer stations himself at the computer system's control panel.



TIM: Like, one converted regular numbers to Roman numerals.

An animation shows a computer screen. The number 999 is entered in Arabic numbers. The computer converts the number to the Roman numeral CMXCIX.

TIM: Another made a computer beep a classic melody by Bach. Older students said they were just goofing around, but these guys had another word for it: "hacking".

An animation shows a programmer demonstrating the program Tim describes. A professor stands next to the computer and listens, then walks away with a frown.

TIM: To them, it meant spending hour upon hour refining code. Making a program as efficient as possible was like a secret art form that only they appreciated.

An animation shows two young programmers writing code in the MIT computer lab.

TIM: And, in 1961, they pulled off their masterpiece.

The computer screen glows, shining light on the faces of the two programmers.



TIM: The school had acquired a PDP-1, a super-advanced computer.

An animation shows a professor standing next to the computer Tim describes.

TIM: It had a graphic display that was a huge leap forward. But it was only being used to generate random shapes.

An animation shows the graphic display Tim describes. The screen shows an array of dots arranged within a square. A rectangle and two triangles form from the array.

TIM: MIT's hackers thought it would be even cooler if the shapes interacted.

The professor walks away from the PDP-1 computer, and two young programmers sneak in and start working with it.

TIM: So they coded the world's first shoot 'em up game, Spacewar! Two players piloted spaceships in a deadly duel around a star.

An animation shows a computer game on the PDP-1 screen. There is an image of a star in the center of the screen. Two rocket shapes move around the screen, shooting at each other.

TIM: The programmers shared their code with people at other schools.

An animation shows two programmers at the California Institute of Technology receiving a package in the mail. It contains the Spacewar! code from the MIT programmers.

TIM: Soon, students around the country weren't just playing Spacewar!; they were tweaking its code to add stuff like cloaking devices and new weapons.

An animation shows two programmers playing a more advanced version of Spacewar!.

TIM: Eventually, the game came pre-loaded on all PDP-1s. Technicians would run Spacewar! to make sure new machines were working properly.

An animation shows a technician with a row of PDP-1 computer screens, all of which are displaying Spacewar!



TIM: Well, no. The programmers didn't get paid for it. They were just psyched to make computers do exactly what they wanted. Spacewar! could never have been programmed the old way.

An animation shows a professor and a programmer playing a computer game together. Both are smiling. The professor wins and makes a gesture of victory.

TIM: It was a process of exploration that demanded a hands-on approach. That idea formed the core of what came to be known as the hacker ethic. This code of beliefs spread among tech enthusiasts around the country.

An animation shows an early computer screen. Text on the screen reads: "Hacker Ethic. Number one: Access to computers should be unrestricted." After the text appears, locked bars around a PDP-1 game icon disappear.



TIM: Well, access to the physical machines is only the beginning. Hackers love exploring computer systems and seeing how they work. So it was just as important to have access to the code.

Additional text on the computer screen reads "Number two: Information wants to be free." An icon representing free computer code appears.

TIM: The more restricted a system was, the more they wanted to get in. That's why, in the 1960s the U.S. telephone network became such a popular target.



TIM: Back then, it was all wires. Calls were expensive, and the networks were a bit of a mystery. So hackers began to obsessively research them.

An animation shows telephone wires running between buildings in a city. A hacker walks by, studying a phone company handbook.

TIM: They studied company manuals and even took tours of their offices.

Images show phone company manuals and a phone company office building.

TIM: They realized the whole system was controlled by electronic tones. Calls were routed based on their pattern and frequencies.

An animation shows a landline phone on a small table. Its receiver is off the hook. A hacker is playing tones on a recorder into the phone's mouthpiece.



TIM: Phreakers, as they were called, built machines to mimic the tones. With these blue boxes, they could call anyone in the world for free.



An animation shows two phreakers using a blue box to make a call with a pay phone. A second animation shows that they are calling the White House.

TIM: Uh, no. Not legal. Like, at all.

Another animation shows President Nixon answering his telephone in the Oval Office. He grumbles at the caller and then slams down the phone.

TIM: But guess what the hacker ethic said about that. Big organizations like the phone company were blocking access to code.

Text on an early computer screen reads "Number three: Fight the power. An animation of a woman in a hat with the label Ma Bell appears near the PDP-1 logo. The woman holds a stick in one hand and slaps it against her other hand in a threatening way.

TIM: Hackers wanted to put more power in the hands of individuals.

The animated Ma Bell is surrounded by people holding up phone receivers. Arrows indicate her power is going to the other people as she shrinks.



TIM: As they matured, many phreakers got into more productive activities. Several were members of the Homebrew Computer Club. This was a group of techies who tinkered with computer hardware.

An animation shows three techies in a basement room filled with electronic equipment and gadgets.

TIM: One of them was Apple's co-founder, Steve Wozniak.

The animation focuses on one of the techies and identifies him as Steve Wozniak.

TIM: Meeting regularly in the early 1970s, the club conceived of the first personal computer.

An image shows a primitive-looking personal computer.

TIM: They shared their information with the larger community and published a newsletter to help people build their own PCs.

An image shows two young people sitting on the floor. They are building a small PC, with the Homebrew Computer Club newsletter pinned up in the background.



TIM: Yep, sharing ideas is another vital part of the hacker ethic.

Text on an early computer screen reads "Number four: Collaborate."

TIM: Dreaming up an innovation is sometimes the easy part. A collective effort is often required to bring those dreams to life.

The early computer screen shows four collaborators creating code together.

TIM: That principle also contributed to the next big revolution in computing.



TIM: In the 1970s and 80s, the U.S. military was testing out one of the first computer networks.

An outline map shows the continental United States. Points and dotted lines represent a primitive nationwide computer network.

TIM: ARPANET let machines in different places communicate with each other. The goal was to better coordinate our armed forces in case of war.

Images on the map represent military personnel using ARPANET to communicate with one another.

TIM: To test the system, they gave limited access to a few universities.



TIM: Yep. To a whole new generation of college hackers, ARPANET was an irresistible prize, a state-of-the-art system to explore, a way to connect with other hackers around the country, and run by the most powerful organization in the world. They imagined many more uses for a network beyond military strategy.

An animation shows two hackers examining the ARPANET network on a desktop computer. The Great Seal of the United States appears on the screen. Text on the screen reads "Top Secret, Access Restricted.” The hackers smile at each other.

TIM: At MIT, they recoded the whole system to be faster and simpler. They opened up the network so more users could access it at once. By the late 1980s, ARPANET had transformed into the Internet.

An animation shows an outline map of the continental United States. A large and complex computer system takes shape.



TIM: Yep. In a lot of ways, hackers helped build the world we're living in. For better and worse, their values are coded into the systems we all depend on.

An animation shows a young person at a laptop computer writing code.

TIM: After all, most of us use computers every day.

Images show a tablet, a cell phone, and a laptop. Pieces of binary code float around the devices.

TIM: Huge amounts of information are freely available on the Web, and that's empowered us all as individuals.



Moby smiles.

TIM: It can be great, depending on the individuals. Some are inspired by the hacker ethic's focus on creativity. They love exploring systems, seeing how they work, and improving them. Just like those guys at MIT years ago, they're all about the art of programming. At contests called hackathons, they match wits and collaborate on coding problems.

An image shows a hackathon. Many young people with laptops are working at tables in a large room.

TIM: But for every positive example of the hacker ethic, there's a negative one.



TIM: Some of them code viruses that destroy data and knock out websites.

A computer screen depicts a hacker destroying the PDP-1 logo. A black hat appears on screen.

TIM: Some steal personal information, like credit cards.

A computer screen depicts a hacker stealing data.

TIM: These black hats are the bad hackers you often hear about in the news.



A timeline indicates that black hat activity began in the 1970s.

TIM: Yeah, they're like modern-day phone phreakers, except way more destructive. In response, many organizations hire white hats. They improve security by finding weaknesses in networks.

A graphic indicating the first establishment of white hats appears on the timeline. It is a far more recent development.



TIM: Between the white and black hats, there's a lot of gray area. Especially when it comes to hackers with political goals. Some of these hacktivists shut down websites run by hate groups and terrorists.

An image shows a computer screen. Text on the screen reads "Warning, Broken Website. Sorry, terrorists! We've shut down your site. Maybe try again later."

TIM: Some expose the private information of those they don't agree with. In other words, they're vigilantes, people who have taken it on themselves to punish others, outside of the legal system.

An animation depicts hacktivists as dark, mysterious figures, tipping the scales of justice.



TIM: Yeah, it's kind of ironic. Those first hackers wanted to take power back from secretive organizations, but look what it's led to. When anyone can take over your computer, it's kind of scary.

A cloaked hacker appears behind a computer as skulls and crossbones flash across the screen. A warning alarm goes off on Tim's laptop. He opens it. Pirate Moby swings across the screen on a rope but then falls and breaks. Tim looks over at Moby, who is again connected to Tim's laptop by a plug. Tim becomes mad again.

TIM: Not to mention very illegal.

Tim sighs.

Tim and Moby are sitting on a curb in a suburban neighborhood. They have sponges, buckets, a water hose, and other cleaning tools. A sign on the sidewalk reads: Car Wash $8. They are sad because they have no customers.

TIM: Man, it's been slow today. We're never going to make enough to.

A long limousine pulls up in front of them, stops, and shuts off its engine. The vehicle sparkles and shines. Tim walks up to a window, admiring the cleanliness of the car.

TIM: Whoa.

The window rolls down. There is a grubby-looking robot inside.

ROBOT: Twang.

The robot gets out of the limousine. Several other grubby robots follow. Tim looks closely at the limo.

TIM: Uh, I'm not sure we can actually get this baby any cleaner.

ROBOT: Twang.

The other robots blip, beep, and twitter. The twanging robot goes over to the garden hose, turns on the water, and begins to wash himself.

TIM: Oh.

Tim reads from a typed letter.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby, Does it matter if I forget to brush my teeth or miss a shower or two? Why is this hygiene stuff so important? From, Joy. Hygiene refers to all the things we do to keep our bodies clean. It includes daily activities like showering and brushing our teeth, and other routines that help us maintain a tidy appearance.

The robots stand in a line near the sidewalk, washing themselves with water, sponges, and brushes.



TIM: Good hygiene is an essential part of being healthy.

An image shows a boy happily washing his hair in the shower.

TIM: It's as important as a good diet, plenty of sleep, and regular exercise.

Images show the same boy eating a salad, sleeping, and playing basketball.

TIM: Forgetting to keep clean can make growing up a lot harder.



TIM: Well, classmates might start to avoid you if you're always dirty. And we all know how down we can get when we're left out.

An animation shows a dirty, smelly robot eating alone in the school cafeteria.

TIM: The physical effects of bad hygiene can leave you feeling even worse.



TIM: You probably know how germs can make you sick. Viruses and bacteria are too tiny to see, but they're literally everywhere.

Images represent various microscopic viruses and bacteria.

TIM: There are trillions and trillions of them for every person on the planet.

Moby's abdomen opens. There are ultraviolet goggles inside. Moby puts them on his eyes and looks at Tim. Tim is covered with tiny organisms.

TIM: They're in the air and water, on our food, and all over our bodies.



Moby tears the goggles off and stares at Tim, uneasy.

TIM: Not all germs are bad for us, Moby. Most are harmless, and some are even beneficial.

Moby smiles.

TIM: Our intestines are home to bacteria that help us digest food. They break it down into the nutrition our bodies need.

An animation shows a girl eating a burger at a kitchen table. Inside her stomach, bacteria eat tiny burgers of their own.

TIM: In fact, all bacteria are just looking for the next meal.



TIM: Sometimes, they find a feast in places that aren't so healthy. Our mouths are like five-star restaurants to bacteria. They collect into a thin film called plaque and chow down on food particles.

An animation shows bacteria having a meal while sitting on the girl's teeth.

TIM: As they digest food, it can make your breath, er, unpleasant.

The bacteria pile food garbage at the base of the girl's gums, where it festers.

TIM: And they also produce acids that eat away at our teeth and gums.

A bacterium sitting on a tooth lets out a long, loud belch.

TIM: That can lead to cavities, holes in your teeth.

The gas from the belch eats a hole in one of the girl's teeth.



TIM: Right. Brushing and flossing regularly cuts off their food supply. And that prevents plaque from getting a foothold.

Animations show teeth being brushed and flossed.



TIM: After every meal is ideal, but in the morning and before bed for sure.

Animations show a girl brushing her teeth after getting up and before going to bed.

TIM: Be gentle and use a soft-bristled brush.

An image shows a soft-bristled toothbrush.

TIM: Remember to brush all your teeth, and your tongue, too. Hitting the two-minute mark will ensure oral superiority.

The twanging robot stands next to Moby, brushing his teeth. Moby times the robot with a stopwatch.



TIM: It's not just about your mouth. Bacteria love any hot, sticky place like armpits, feet, and your, uh, private parts.

An animation shows a boy soaping himself up in a shower.

TIM: Paying attention to those areas will prevent them from getting stinky or irritated.

Several bacteria fall screaming from the showering boy's body. They hit the shower floor and are washed down the drain. There is an animation of a closed bathroom door and the sound of a toilet flushing. Moby opens the door, smiling.



TIM: You have to wash your hands after you go to the bathroom. Chances are they have some bad bacteria on them. Clean them for fifteen seconds with warm, soapy water before you touch something else.



Moby washes his hands in the bathroom sink.

TIM: Well, like scratching a scab or rubbing your eye. Germs can easily multiply in these places and cause an infection. That means they overwhelm your body's natural defenses.

Animations show a person rubbing a finger on a scab and on his eye. Infections grow in both places he has touched.

TIM: Infections can be painful and dangerous. Plus, you may need medicine to get rid of them.

An animation shows a doctor treating a painful infection on a boy's arm.



TIM: Yep. Germs can live for a while on things like doorknobs and desks.

An animation shows germs living on a classroom doorknob.

TIM: That's why you should wash your hands regularly, not just after bathroom breaks.

A boy walks to the door, opens it, and goes inside the classroom.

TIM: Use hand sanitizer if that's more convenient.

An animation highlights a hand-sanitizer dispenser on the wall next to the classroom door.



TIM: Cleaning your personal space helps, too, and not just for germs.

Tim wipes down the desk and computer in his bedroom while Moby runs the vacuum.

TIM: Most people feel better when their stuff is neat and organized. It's just one less thing you have to worry about.



TIM: Oh, right. As you approach puberty, some of your body systems will kick into high gear.

An animation shows a young boy turning into a teenager.

TIM: Your skin will produce more oils, which some bacteria love to eat.

An animation shows the base of one of the teenager's body hairs. It is producing oil, as Tim describes.

TIM: So you'll find that you really need a shower to keep from smelling funky.

Tim and Moby are sitting on the sofa, watching television. Moby sniffs, makes a face, and moves down the sofa, away from Tim. Tim sniffs under one of his own arms and frowns.

TIM: Deodorant can help with that, too. So can washing your clothes, especially stuff like socks and underwear.

An animation shows a running washing machine. Moby drops a pair of shorts in a clothes basket next to the washer.



TIM: The earlier you start these habits, the easier it will be. It takes some work, but it's totally worth it. Keeping your body and personal space in order just makes you feel good.

Images show a toothbrush and toothpaste, hands under a water faucet, cuticles being buffed, piles of clean, folded clothes, and a neat, organized desk.

TIM: It makes you feel more confident and calm.

The twanging robot twangs, and the other robots blip, beep, and twitter. They stand in a line on the curb, looking clean, and the limousine arrives to pick them up.

TIM: Y'all come back now!



Tim and Moby wave at the limo as it drives away down their street.



TIM: Yup, our first sale of the day!



Moby picks up an empty jar labeled with a dollar sign.

TIM: No cash? So what'd they give you?



Moby hands Tim a live, clucking chicken.

TIM: But... this... I don't...

Tim sighs.

A boy, Tim, appears in the room. Moby hands him the letter. An animation shows Tim’s hand holding a typed letter.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby, Why are boys so immature? Signed, Jewels.

Tim and Moby address the camera. Tim is wearing a white T-shirt with a red uppercase letter “P” on it.

TIM: Hey, all boys aren't immature.



TIM: But we do hit puberty later than girls.



TIM: Well, simply put, puberty is the name for all the changes your body goes through as it makes the transition from childhood to adulthood. It's caused by hormonal changes in your body. Hormones are the chemical messengers released by the pituitary gland, a tiny but important pea-sized structure located near your brain.

An animation shows a male shadow and a female shadow Text reads: hormones. A small blue dot appears about where the mouth would be on each shadow. Text reads: pituitary gland.

TIM: The reproductive glands–the testes in boys, and the ovaries in girls–also manufacture hormones that contribute to puberty.

Two small blue dots appear just above and between the legs of each shadow.

Tim and Moby address the camera.

TIM: Puberty begins in girls between ages 8 and 13. The pituitary gland releases hormones that tell the ovaries to start producing the hormones estrogen and progesterone, and to start releasing eggs each month.

An animation shows a female shadow. A small green dot appears about where her mouth would be and two small green dots appear just above and between her legs. A dotted circle appears around the lower half of her body, surrounding the green dots.

Text reads: ovaries.

At the top right of the screen, text reads: estrogen. Below this, text reads: progesterone.

TIM: These hormones cause changes to happen in a girl's body. Breasts start to develop, hips gain some extra padding, pubic and underarm hair starts to grow, and menstruation begins.

An image shows the chest of a clothed girl. An image shows the lower torso, hips, and upper legs of a clothed girl. An image shows short hairs. An image shows a tampon and a feminine hygiene pad.

Tim and Moby address the camera.

TIM: In boys between 9 and 14 years old, hormones from the pituitary gland tell the testes to let out more of the hormone testosterone, and to start making sperm.

An animation shows a male shadow. A small green dot appears about where his mouth would be and two small green dots appear just above and between his legs. A dotted circle appears around the lower half of his body, surrounding the green dots.

Text reads: testes.

Below this, text reads: testosterone.

TIM: The increased level of testosterone causes changes in boys, too. Just like in girls, pubic and underarm hair starts to grow.

An image shows short hairs.

TIM: Facial and body hair starts growing, too.

An image shows short hairs around a mouth.

TIM: The genital organs start to enlarge.

An animation shows a shirtless boy from the chest up, standing in front of a blue tiled wall.

BOY: Whoa!

TIM: Muscles become more developed.

An image shows a man’s flexed arm.

TIM: And the larynx enlarges, making your voice a lot deeper.

Tim addresses the camera.

TIM: Like that.

An animation shows Tim and Moby in a room. Moby is holding a length of measuring tape up to Tim.

TIM: Mmm, I don’t think I've hit my growth spurt yet, Moby. Boys begin their growth spurt later than girls, but we grow for a longer time.

An animation shows a male shadow and a female shadow. They are about the same height. The female shadow begins to increase in height first, then the male shadow. The female shadow stops growing, but the male shadow continues increasing in height, stopping after it is taller than the female shadow.

TIM: That's why guys generally end up taller than girls.

Tim and Moby address the camera.



TIM: Right, Moby. Along with all those physical changes that hormones cause, there are some emotional changes too. Guys and girls may start thinking about each other... well, differently, and that can cause some awkwardness.

An animation shows a girl, Rita, standing in a field.

RITA: Hey, Tim.

An animation shows Tim standing in a field.

TIM: Uh, uh…Hey Rita…

Tim blushes.

An animation shows Moby standing in a field. Tim and Moby address the camera.

TIM: These changes don’t happen overnight. Puberty takes years to run its course. But when you're done, you'll be an adult! At least physically, anyway.

Tim makes spaceship sounds and flies a toy airplane around in his hand. Moby covers his face with his hand.

TIM: Dear Tim & Moby, please explain how the reproductive system works, and all that sort of stuff. From, Airborne.

Tim is standing next to his robot friend, Moby. Moby giggles about Airborne's letter.



TIM: Don't make a big thing out of this.

Moby moves his hand to his head and Moby's head begins to shake up and down.


TIM: All right, that's enough.

Tim clears his throat.

TIM: So here's how the human reproductive systems work. Let's start with boys.

An outline of a male body appears. A circle is drawn around the groin area. A caption reads: "the male reproductive system".

TIM: So the...uh, penis, is one of the male reproductive organs.

The animation switches to a side view. The outline of the man shows his penis in a flaccid position. A caption reads: "penis".

TIM: Tiny male sperm cells are produced inside the testicles.

An outline appears to the left showing a sperm consisting of an oval head with a long tail. This outline is labeled "sperm cells". Just behind the penis; inside the body, the outline of two touching spheres appear. They are labeled "testicles".

TIM: Testicles are two rounded glands that hang under the penis inside a pouch called the scrotum.

A caption "scrotum" appears with a line drawn to the pouch around the testicles.

TIM: Sperm can't survive if they're too warm. That's why the testicles are outside the body, so they can stay slightly cooler than the temperature of the rest of the body.

Moby's eyes focus downward.

TIM: Sperm move through the sperm duct to mix with fluids from the seminal vesicles and prostate gland.

A drawing of the interior of the male body is shown. An organ labeled "prostate gland" has a duct (labeled "sperm duct") leading to the head of the penis. Another duct leads to an organ labeled "seminal vesicles". Two more ducts lead from the prostate gland to the testicles.

TIM: This mixture of sperm and fluids is called semen.

Moby is now wearing a blonde wig.

TIM: In an adult male, over 250 million sperm cells are made every day. It's a good thing they're so small.



TIM: Right, now on to girls.

An outline of a female body appears. A circle is drawn around the groin area. A caption reads: "the female reproductive system". Tim speaks to Moby in a quieter voice.

TIM: Take that thing off!



TIM: Unlike male genitals, the female reproductive organs are found inside the body.

A close-up of the female reproductive system is shown. The exterior opening is shown symbolically as a "Upper Y". Above this is a diagram of the vagina, and above that is a diagram of the uterus. Tubes lead left and right ending in spherical organs.

TIM: The sex glands in women are called ovaries.

The animation zooms in on one of the spherical organs, which is then labeled "ovary".

TIM: During puberty the ovaries start to release one egg cell, or ovum, each month.

An animation shows an ovum leaving the ovary and traveling along the Fallopian tube into the uterus.

TIM: They travel down the Fallopian tubes to the uterus. If sperm fertilizes the egg cell, it plants itself in the uterus wall and forms an embryo, a mass of cells that can grow into a baby.

A second egg cell is shown leaving the ovary. This one meets some sperm traveling in the opposite direction in the Fallopian tube. The egg continues on and then lands on the uterus wall. An insert shows a large cluster of cells adhering to the uterus wall.

TIM: If not, the egg passes out of the body through the vagina during the woman's menstrual period.

Moby's wig is gone.

TIM: This cycle repeats itself every 28 days or so. Women's bodies don't make new egg cells. Instead, they're born with a lifetime supply.



TIM: How does it work? Well sperm and egg cells each contain half a set of DNA. That's like the chemical blueprint for your body, and it’s present in every single one of your cells. When a sperm and egg cell meet, the half-sets combine into a full set, creating a new, unique individual!

An animation shows a sperm approaching an egg cell. The sperm punctures through the wall of the egg cell and travels to the interior. The egg cell changes to have a new membrane.



TIM: The reproductive organs are nothing to get all embarrassed about. Everyone has them, and without reproduction, none of us would be here!



TIM: Well, except you. But you would be pretty lonely.

Moby starts to daydream. An animation shows Moby standing, forlorn, in a desolate area, with no other life visible. The wind can be heard. Moby looks all around, but sees nothing. He raises up both hands and begins to wave them. Moby's lights flash.

TIM: Dear Tim and Moby, What are robots? From, Jac



TIM: That's right, Moby. You're a robot. But you're one of a kind. And by today's standards of robotics, you're pretty, sophisticated. For lack of a better word.

Moby frowns at Tim.



TIM: Nothing, nothing. Most robots today may not be as exciting as the walking, talking, mechanical people you see in science fiction, but they're still pretty cool.

Images show a round, robotic vacuum cleaner, a welding robot, and a human-shaped robot.

TIM: Simply put, a robot is a mechanical device controlled by a computer.



TIM: I guess they could be your friends, but usually robots don't have much of a personality. Take this guy. Industrial robots like him are used in factories. They can carry out precision tasks, over and over, without getting tired or bored.

An animation shows a robot welding cars on an assembly line.

TIM: And while our arms have only three joints, a robot arm might have ten.

An image shows a man's arm with its joints highlighted at the wrist, elbow, and shoulder. A robotic arm appears with many more joints highlighted.

TIM: A robot arm might also have a full 360 degrees of rotation.

An image shows a robot's arm. An arrow illustrates that the arm can turn 360 degrees around.

TIM: This is a welding robot. When humans weld metal, they have to wear all sorts of protective gear to prevent accidents. They have to be extremely precise and their work usually takes a while.

Side by side images show the entire robot welding a piece of metal, and a human welder wearing a protective mask and gloves.

TIM: Robots can do it faster and just as well, without all the danger.



TIM: Well, most robots have computers for brains. That means everything they do is pre-programmed. So while industrial robots are great at the jobs they're programmed for, they can't really do anything else. They're pretty inflexible.

An animation shows a robot in an assembly line, welding cars. The same robot tries to weld a sofa and the sofa catches on fire.

TIM: And some robots don't even have brains at all! They're known as remote robots, or puppet robots, and they're commonly used to explore places we can't go. This guy is called Canadarm2, and it's part of the International Space Station. The arm is 60 feet long, can lift more than 100 tons, and even has a special hand attachment for precision work. Since both ends have grasping tools, Canadarm isn't anchored in place. It can move all around the outside of the space station, kind of like an inchworm!

An animation shows Canadarm2. It is a mechanical arm attached to the bottom of the space station. It has an attachment that is called a hand which has metal links and lights on it. The arm is shown moving about.

TIM: All of its movements have to be controlled by astronauts inside the station.

An image shows an astronaut controlling the robotic arm. She uses controllers and computer monitors to control the arm.



TIM: That's true, researchers are working on artificial intelligence (AI), or learning computers. If computers can learn the way people do, they'll be able to do new things without special programming! Kismet is an early attempt at such a machine. She's programmed to learn by observing people, kind of like how babies learn from their parents.

An animation shows Kismet. Her face has eyes, eyebrows, ears, lips, and teeth that resemble a human face and can also move around.

TIM: She can pick up new facial expressions and tones of voice that weren't programmed into her!

The robot looks down and then up, making different faces.

TIM: And this guy's name is Pino, after Pinocchio. He actually taught himself to walk through trial and error!

An image shows Pino taking a step forward. He looks like a person wearing a spacesuit. He has boards under his feet and a cord attached to his back.



TIM: Yeah, I guess these guys could be your friends. But Pino lives in Japan, and Kismet lives in a museum.

Moby looks disappointed.



TIM: Don't worry, there are dozens of other types of robots. Some of them are simple, like our robotic vacuum cleaner. It feels its way along by bumping into things, but sensors help it avoid stairs and other drop-offs.

An animation shows a round, robotic vacuum cleaner moving about and cleaning a floor.

TIM: Other robots are incredibly complex, like this unmanned aircraft, or drone. It may look like a plane, but it doesn't have a pilot!

An animation shows a drone aircraft.

TIM: Sometimes drones are controlled remotely, by people. And sometimes, they're programmed to carry out complicated missions with little human involvement. They can fly over a forest fire to let us know how fast it's moving and where it's headed. They can be equipped with sensors that detect precious minerals, as well as oil and gas, in the ground below. And the military uses drones to spy on enemy forces and deliver bombs.

Images show drones flying over a forest fire, oil platforms, and a line of army tanks.



TIM: Yep, we're at the dawn of a whole new era of robotics! Robotic engineers are working on microscopic machines called nanorobots. These machines will be constructed from individual molecules, and measure less than a millionth of a meter across.

An image shows a pin. At its point, a popup shows molecule-like structures called nanorobots.

TIM: Nanobots might help us deal with diseases and other problems. They could travel through the bloodstream, detecting and killer cancer cells without damaging healthy tissues.

An animation shows nanobots shaped like tubes with feet. They are inside the bloodstream, zapping out bad cells while not touching healthy cells.

TIM: Or, engineers could make little traps that clean up pollution at the microscopic level.

An animation shows spherical nanobots traveling in air. They open like mouths and eat harmful particles.

TIM: Nanobots might be made to swarm over buildings and fix tiny cracks before they grow bigger.

An animation shows dome-shaped nanobots with small legs. They crawl around and light up when they find cracks on surfaces. A different kind of nanobot appears and fixes the crack.



TIM: No, all that is still a pretty long way off: a decade or two at the very least. Speaking thereof, what time is it?

Tim's eyes turn red.

TIM: Time to purchase a new chronometer? My forehead is covered with ice.

Tim's voice turns robotic.

TIM: May I use your restroom? If I could be any type of dog, I'd be a goat.

Moby giggles. Tim starts to sing. His voice sounds like a malfunctioning robot.

TIM: I'll be seeing you in all the old familiar places.

Moby presses Tim's back. Tim’s voice slows down and dies out on the last words. There is a clicking sound. Moby pulls Tim's face off revealing he's a robot with a computer circuit in his brain and a speaker for a mouth. Moby looks pleased with himself. The real Tim is heard calling Moby from a distance.

TIM: Moby? Have you seen that letter around here? I think it is about robots or something.

Moby winks.
